# The Javascript Lab Notebook #

*The Javascript lab notebook is [available here](http://www.ashi.works/javascript-lab-notebook).*

This notebook has a collection of lab specimens and notes findings to help you
learn Javascript by experiment.

My intention in writing these is to convey not just facts about Javascript,
but the experimental approach I use to discover technologies. That's why this
is a &#8220;lab notebook,&#8221; not a blog, and that's why these are
&#8220;specimens,&#8221; rather than blog posts. I am not an infallible font
of knowledge, and my lab notes are full of little discoveries I've made about
Javascript in the process of dissecting each specimen. Look at the piece of
[specimen 0001](http://www.ashi.works/javascript-lab-
notebook/001_short_circuit_evaluation/) where I'm surprised about what sorts
of things Javascript considers truthy. The surprise in my notes is genuineâ€”I
really didn't know this thing before poking this specimen and figuring it out.
More than learning anything about this language in particular, my hope is that you'll come away from the lab notebook with an idea of how to play with things until you figure out how they work.

I think you'll learn the most if you examine each specimen and try to
thoroughly understand it before reading my notes. The questions are generally
easy to answer by running the code, so don't stop there. Try to build and
articulate a model that can describe what's going on, then construct some new
specimens that test your model. 

You'll want to have a basic idea of Javascript structure and syntax before
starting on these. You could discover it by expeirment, of course, but that would be quite tedious, and staying interested and engaged is an important part of research.

As a resource, I so far like _[Speaking Javascript](http://speakingjs.com/es5/index.html)_. It's freely available
online, and so far, it seems accurate, precise, and in line with current best
practices. It's written by Dr. Axel Rauschmayer, who I'd like to refer to as
&#8220;Axel&#8221; or &#8220;Dr. Rose&#8221;. At a minimum, I'd recommend
reading Axel's [first chapter](http://speakingjs.com/es5/ch01.html), where he
covers all the Javascript language features you will ever need.
